"Don't worry. Everything will work out in the end." I don't know how many times I've heard that said to me. Sometimes its for little things. More ofte someone says it in response to some big hairy thing. The kind of thing that you can't see through to the other side. Precisely when things are least likely to actually go well. 

I'm not sure when this kind of god came into the public conscience. That there was some force of good, watching out for you, making sure that everything worked out. It certainly wasn't the greeks. The greek gods were drunken ego maniacs. The ones that were sober enough to plan anything were vindictive manipulative snakes, sometimes literally. The greeks certainly didn't believe that their lives were going to work out for them, just because. Their religious lives were a series of misfortunes, tregedies, and attempts to seduce, bribe or strong arm their gods into doing what they wanted. 

What we do see quite early in the american context is the idea of Providence. Providence is a benevolent god. A watchful eye in the sky. A warm ray of sunshine, a fully stocked larder, strong and happy young family were all gifts from Providence. PRovidence was so helpful in fact, that she was called upon. only rarely, and then only to overcome the current hard time. Now, I use the term hardtime very loosely. Rarely is Providence invoked for extended periods. Sure, perhaps in a bad harvest one may remember that Providence is looking down, or rather was. A run of bad luck, or a temporary loss of job title or status might supply a similar albeit temporary reminder. The belief in a god of providence does not require that things always be good. In fact, a temporary setback allows the human mind to supply the narrative that they are the star of the universe. Every rags to riches story requires a good set back of two. In fact, we need it, crave it even. What other way to prove our own worth? You see, the god of providence is not merely a cosmic candy man doling out mana and lollipops to all of the good little children. No no no. He is the loving father, the one whose sons and daughters have done what they needed to do to find favor. They are the worthy heirs to the pearly gates. The belief in Providence is a belif in their own worth to receive the gifts of heaven. 

God is no cornucopia, no horn of plenty in the sky raining down goodness to all of his little ones. For one thing, he regularly and routinely asserts his personhood. He walks in the garden with the first born of his creation, Adam and Eve. He stands at the door of our heart, knocking, waiting to be let in. This God no fairy god mother come to remove the obstacles to our ball. He demands to know, and be known, for his love. 

His distinct personhood is necessarily to understand the second point about himself, that he came suffered and died for our sins.  A cruel and public execution. The kind of execution that only a civilizatin with hundreds of millions of subjects and a thousand year need public order and obedience could invent.

Moreover, he promised his followers that they would suffer as well. 

Maybe confusing the words about plenty, 
maybe confuse the words about all things working for the good

Surely there is death
Surely there will be pain. 
Certainly there is no guarantee of wealth
There is no guarantee of peace

There is a guarantee of himself. He is the ultimate prize. The ultimate reward. The ultimate peace.
